# Short answer 1
>IPSA operates in a political environment and our work attracts high levels of public comment. We have received the following e-mail from a member of the public: "As a tax payer and a concerned citizen of the UK, I demand to know how much public funds my local MP (Mr Someone) is spending on travel and hotel accommodation, because in my opinion all his claims are fraudulent. Specifically, I demand the following information covering the period January 2011 to present: copies of all train ticket receipts, showing the date, time, starting point and destination, and cost; copies of all hotel invoices, showing the name and address of the hotel, and the dates of the stay; Receipts of all taxi travel between home, stations and hotels; the identities of whom he is travelling with and staying in hotels with; copies of invoices of all other claims submitted during the periods in which he either travelled or stayed in hotel accommodation; you will create an Excel spreadsheet in which you will list all the data from the invoices, broken down into date and expense type; you will explain to me why he is allowed to claim for the above and why you allow it to happen. I understand that the Freedom of Information Act entitles me to obtain full and complete copies of anything that I want. If you do not send me all the information I want, I will report you to the ICO and contact the press. I am watching this MP very closely and I am watching you too’. The standard acknowledgment was sent to the requestor upon receipt, and we now need to formulate the response. Please outline the areas that require consideration (and why), in regards to both a) the requested data and b) advice to include in the response letter. Please note that we are asking for details of the factors that you would consider, rather than providing a draft response.


To begin with I think it is important to break down what the citizen requires to achieve the outcome of their request. The citizen has stated that they want to know "how much public funds my local MP (Mr Someone) is spending on travel and hotel accommodation". Following the principle of least privilege for access to information, the minimum amount of information should be provided to meet this enquiry, if it is legal to do so.

Many of the artifacts requested by the citizen are superfluous to the request, and also pose both significant security and privacy concerns. Information such as name and address of each hotel that an MP stays in can be used by hostile actors to perform a pattern-of-life analysis, enabling attacks and harassment. Furthermore, the citizen requests that the "identities of whom he is travelling with and staying in hotels with" are provided, posing a privacy concern for these citizens.

The information that the citizen requires for their analysis can easily be anonymised to achieve their desired outcome. Amount spent by account (taxi, train, hotel), train destinations, hotel locations, etc. can be provided as accounting style data which allows the citizen to reach their intended outcome.

In my response to the citizen I would focus on politely handling their concerns, reassuring them that the relevant data required for their analysis will be provided (if lawful), while explaining to them the reasons why they may not receive all of the data they requested.

# Short answer 2

> At IPSA we take data protection and information governance very seriously. We have received the following internal e-mail from a colleague in another part of the organisation: "Please can you help – I think I’ve breached the Data Protection Act. I’ve just noticed that ten days ago I sent an e-mail to the wrong person. It was meant to go to an MP’s office, but instead it’s gone to someone else with the same name. There were attachments. I’ve tried to recall the e-mail, but I don’t think it’s worked. What shall I do?".

> You need to deal with this incident. Please tell us how you would investigate, assess the risk and aim to resolve the matter. Please include all factors that you would consider, plus any points you would include in your findings. Again, we are asking for details of what you would consider and the advice you would give, rather than providing a draft response.

In order to run an effective investigation, it is important to first identify what information is required for the analysis and to ensure that any response is appropriate. I would first consider asking the colleague to provide details if they can on the data in question, such as its confidentiality level (it is important that they only reveal to me what is required/authorised for my clearance and position). The colleague mentioned "there were attachments", but did not specify what these were or what the possible implications might be. I would also reassure them that I will do my best to help them, as the tone of their email seems panicked.

It would also help to obtain the email address of the actual recipient of this email. Depending on the provider, it might be worth reaching out to the owner of the email server to request that the email be deleted from their servers. This should be done as quickly as possible to minimise risk exposure.

Assessing the risk would require an understanding of the relevant environment and how the material in the email is related to it. This would require liasing with domain experts on the subject matter of the email. I would then synthesize this information into a report, detailing what the risks are and how the actions taken may mitigate that risk, as well as under what circumstances significant problems would arise.

Finally, if the risk level is deemed to be high, I would escalate to my superiors.
