Dear Hiring Manager

I have just viewed your job vacancy for 'Software Engineer' (224130342) on CV-Library and believe that I am perfectly placed to excel the role. I have been programming in Python for 12 years, growing exceptionally proficient over the course of my Economics with Data Science degree and subsequent work experience, with a proven ability to pick up new programming languages resulting in me being put forward for a fully funded PhD scholarship. I am passionate about functional programming, having begun to learn Haskell, and would love the opportunity to reach a lower level with rust. In python I regularly use lambdas, partial applications, factory functions, and reductions for composition.

I am an aspiring data scientist and am very passionate about programming and data, last year embarking on a web scraping project to collect rental and labour market data in JavaScript with NodeJS. My primary career focus thus far has been on building reliable data infrastructure and performing transformations to facilitate analysis and usage in machine learning models. My recently completed capstone project for this focus is a data integration layer I constructed, using a postgres database as an MDS for storing and managing preprocessed data, control logic, configuration of ETL processes, and reference data. I am highly proficient with using SQL to retrieve and manipulate data, as well as python pandas (although I am considering learning Polars as a replacement due to its high performance). For my deployments, I use docker compose to build directly from pinned GitHub repositories, allowing me to easily create independent development and testing environments for various micro services, and then easily propagate changes to production. I also briefly, conducted an RnD project to implement a deepVAR model for a inventory stock forecasting system, where I produced an MLOps plan for cross-validation, training, and prediction services in docker with pytorch.

I also have a strong interest in mathematics which I love to pursue when I get the opportunity. I am very familiar with set theory, propositional calculus, game theory, and statistics, which I regularly use for reasoning in problem solving and programming. I have also studied some lambda calculus, which I find a very elegant approach to computation. As part of my degree I learned the fundamentals of linear regression, linear algebra, and a variety of supervised and unsupervised machine learning methods such as decision trees, random forests, neural networks, and clustering algorithms such as k-means.

Thank you for considering my application, and I hope to hear from you soon!

Kind regards,
Frey Lyons
